this video is sponsored by North EPN
Facebook Twitter Instagram ready they're
everywhere
thousands engineered day-to-day
completely for free by people who put
blood sweat and tears into their work
and the results absolutely incredible
the process of making a meme is simple
grab an expressive or well-known image
imported to Photoshop then
recontextualize it by adding relatable
or accurate captions alternatively just
deep-fry the living she can't help it
then upload it to a platform of your
choice and if it's popular enough it
might even be taken by others rhe
captioned and then re-upload it to other
platforms in the cycle that lasts for
weeks until the meme has been exhausted
of all of its humor and finally laid to
rest the last few years have seen memes
explode and reach it's even gotten to
the point where politicians and
political parties are posting them memes
have become massive but they aren't
anything new in fact they've actually
been around since the mid 90s they have
changed forms pretty considerably though
it's the year 2000 the y2k bug has not
caused the untold devastation that
somewhat predicted and people are
optimistic the Internet has been
publicly available for nine years now
and it's still in this very early stages
the sites like YouTube and Facebook
still another four years away
[Music]
but by this point the memes had already
started for an idea of some of the
Internet's first memes one was a gift of
a dancing baby another were line from a
poorly translated arcade game social
media was incredibly bare-bones at the
time so if you wanted to share one of
these bad boys
it was either through bulletin boards
direct messaging or good old email when
it came to text-based memes the late 90s
introduced the motivational posters
posters that subverted the comment
motivational posters for comedic effect
then in 2005 someone on 4chan decided to
put text over pictures of cats and the
people loved them this text format
within adopted to other images if you're
older than 13 you've probably seen at
least one of these memes have since
evolved over the years and at this point
they're almost universally known for
good or for bad but it wasn't just
pictures of cats with text on a baby
gifts that went viral actual people did
too if you fulfill this fate you'd be
launched to stardom in a matter of days
some people lavish this newfound
celebrity status living the life of a
rock star and possibly even becoming
elected but becoming a meme was not such
a great experience for everyone lies
lawsuits hit pieces and just overall
embarrassment could seep through the
cracks of the glory and would plague
those unfortunate souls for years on end
these are their stories
2002 a time characterised by an
overwhelming amount of Nokia bricks the
Harry Potter films and afresh the
elected Bush administration but more
importantly the Star Wars prequels
enthusiast lane Raza miss Lane was just
a regular 14 year old attending High
School in Troy Riviere Canada however
very soon he would come to be known
worldwide as a Jedi Knight on November
the 4th Justine was in the studio room
of his high school and wielding nothing
but a golf ball retriever nice recorded
himself pretending to be a Jedi that
recording was never supposed to leave
the room purchase Lane made a fatal
mistake the incriminating tape was left
in a basement of the school and in April
2003 a few other students discovered the
footage one of them turned the tape into
video then distributed it around the
school soon everyone in the school had
seen it it didn't take long for it to
spread around the internet and needless
to say it blows the [__] up it's
estimated that by November of 2006 the
clip had been viewed around 1 billion
times once again the video is going
round at a time before YouTube this was
the most viewed video on the internet by
far at this point naturally he was
dubbed Star Wars kid and then came the
edits Star Wars kid nikka new Star Wars
kid in the matrix Star Wars kid in Star
Wars it was featured and alluded to in
countless television shows and she's
lame said that almost every talk show in
North America asked him to come on he
declined all of them a petition was even
made to include him in the next Star
Wars film the petition reached 140,000
signatures but unfortunately he was not
offered the cameo but what seemed to be
nothing more than the funny joke turned
out to be a bit more sinister than what
met the eye after the video went around
the school
she's Lane's classmates could apparently
jump on tables in front of other
students and proceeded to hurl insults
to him about it when it hit the web
things got a lot worse random people
were sending him messages they were not
nice he lost friends at school and he
got so bad that he actually
to leave the school substituting it with
private tutoring he also had to see a
therapist he went through such an ordeal
that four years after the event he would
do his best to distance himself from the
identity of the Star Wars kid but there
was a problem people kept recognizing
him eventually he ended up just giving
up and coming out in 2003 he sued the
families of the children who put a video
on the internet for around two hundred
and fifty thousand dollars they reached
an undisclosed settle in three years
later but the money you received ended
up not even covering the costs of
therapy and private tutoring we haven't
heard much since
quickly before we move on did you know
that browsing the Internet is dangerous
here are the facts there is a man at the
NSA at this very moment watching your
every move so don't skip this ad he
might be interested in Lourdes VPN to
fact number two Internet service
providers like Verizon and BT track your
internet use and then sell it on to
advertisers in fact number three hackers
can exploit unsecured connections to get
inside your system and from there they
can steal your precious data what can
you do about these severe privacy risks
well luckily the boys over at Nord have
whipped up a military-grade encryption
VPN with Nord VPN your IP address is
hidden this means Internet service
providers and hackers can't track what
you do and that NSA man now has to work
even harder to find you to them you
could be anywhere finally awake all of
this and more on superfast service and
there's 5,500 of them unlimited
bandwidth two times the encryption you
serve up to six devices at once it even
works in China but wait you're having a
problem with Nord VPN this 24 hour of
support for some reason it's not for you
there's a 30-day money-back guarantee
and Nord VPN is 70% off using the link
below that's three dollars 49 a month
plus a month free just go to north VPN
com forward slash Big Boss or use the
code Big Boss at checkout
April 2005 World of Warcraft is massive
the game just reached an estimated 1.5
million monthly subscribers just five
months after release and in this same
month 24 year-old Ben Schultz and his
friends record a video that goes down in
the history books a rough go first
appears on a world of warcraft video
hosting site called warcraft movies the
video starts with ben's in-game
character Leroy Jenkins
standing at the gates of a raid with a
group of friends while they carefully
plan the odds of survival but there's a
twist Boehner's chug two pints of G fuel
beforehand it quickly becomes the most
downloaded video on the site and people
flocked to warcraft movies just to
witness it the following week see the
forum's flooded with Leroy Jenkins
comments in August 2006 the video blows
up on YouTube and Leroy Jenkins goes
mainstream it becomes such a staple in
the fanbase of World of Warcraft that
the developers actually tried to embrace
it but Leroy Jenkins becoming a trading
card in a few of their games and a
character in a World of Warcraft
expansion Ben was also invited to their
annual conventions where he would ascend
on stage and shout Leroy Jenkins as loud
as he could into the audience but it
wasn't all sunshine and roses an insane
amount of people had seen the video
this meant Leroy had fans a lot of them
this made playing the game a bit more
difficult than it used to be as forever
Ben would go an army of fans would be
marching behind him uttering those
famous words this went on for months
apparently on one occasion and the
actual enraged mother logged on and
shouted at Ben because her son wouldn't
stop shouting Leroy Jenkins in another
instance he had an actual online stalker
named Leroy's apprentice Leroy's
apprentice would apparently follow him
around the game religiously and wanted
to hang out with him all the time but it
wasn't just the fans as it turned out
that some people actually weren't too
happy about the viral video and so Ben
got his fair share of hate as well
shortly after the video blew up when the
boys tried to cash in on the insane
spread of Leroy Jenkins
so they made some merchandise
unfortunately the clothing couldn't
compete with the sea of Jenkins
merchandise
already on the market although they did
manage to sell a thong bands face on it
they also had no way of trademarking
Leroy Jenkins because it wasn't
associated with the product or service
and the game developers owned the rights
to the original video and everything in
it they gave up on this business venture
not long after then then took up some
voice lessons and was soon offered a few
announcement gigs at some video game
tournaments but that didn't last too
long either it looked like Ben was out
of luck when it came to making much
money from the video but then rumors of
a Leroy Jenkins character written for
the recent Warcraft movie cropped up
apparently legendary pictures even flew
him out to Hollywood to meet some of
their staff but it would turn out that
this character was in an early version
of the script and was quickly scrapped
at least he was invited to the premiere
Byrne ask the people at legendary
pictures that he be included in the next
film the director has since stated that
there would be no sequel June 2004 a
German boy by the name of Norman cocky
now Sookie celebrates his 13th birthday
he receives an expensive camcorder he
would use this camcorder to become one
of the very first proposed his on the
Internet a bit of context before any of
this
Norman frequented a mixtape website run
by a rapper whom he admired one line
from one of the rappers mixtapes goes
I'm a real gangsta I Drive a car get out
Norman thought he'd parody this line and
in 2005 he shot and uploaded a video
that would come to be known as I'm a
real gangster I'm gangster I'm stealing
the bread shop this video ends up
getting shared around online a Norman
then goes on to create a fictional
alter-ego around the video called
leopold slikk and would continue to
upload gangster videos online under this
persona these videos would range from
exploding Coca Cola on his face to
singing in imitations eventually in 2006
he makes a video called PC spielen and
everything changes now 2006 was a time
not to unlike today where the media was
intent on turning to video games to
answer why children could turn violent
the media in Germany was pushing this
narrative strongly at the time and a few
German politicians were actively
discussing it one even called for an
outright ban on them so keeping that in
mind
Norman uploads PC spielen a video where
he pretends to play Unreal Tournament
and get a bit angry the video gets
around online and eventually doorman is
approached by German media company Focus
TV who asked if they can use the clip
for a documentary he agrees they were
then given the rights to PC stealing and
subsequently shot a documentary called
Leopold this is when things started to
turn sour
the documentary ended up making Norman
out to be some sort of deranged kid that
violent video games had negatively
affected they even went to the lengths
of making a completely fake backstory
for the video suggesting that the father
had set up a hidden camera to get
footage of his ADHD son playing a video
game that was just a shameless lie but
then the documentary started to gain
some traction as a result pieces being
went viral spawning dozens of edits and
Norman's worldwide recognition as the
angry german kid he was famous there was
just one problem everyone absolutely
hated him
now 2006 was also a time when YouTube
was more of an authentic place than it
is today a time where most of the videos
were breakdown DIY and otherwise
educationally oriented in other words
Norman was very ahead of his time people
thought the videos were real they
thought he was really weird
thousands of hate comments appeared
under the numerous uploads of PC spielen
he also started to get bullied at school
he tried writing an online post
explaining that the videos were staged
but no one was listening he would end up
pulling the original gangster videos but
it was too late dozens of reuploads but
already around it was out of Norman's
hands he announced that no more videos
would be released because of the
situation and disappeared from the
internet without a trace there would be
no more real gangster
although six years later he would come
back to YouTube as a bodybuilder in a
wrapper [__] parade Berle in July 2000
an experimental video artist by the name
of Matthias fridge records a four-minute
clip of an absolutely stacked Nordic
looking man dancing down the street to
techno music Matthias uploads it to his
website and not much happens for about
six years
but then in 2006 he uploaded to YouTube
and in 2007 it goes viral the techno
viking becomes world-famous and Matthias
earns around 10,000 dollars through
YouTube ads and licensing over the first
two years of it going viral but two
years later a letter would arrive on
Matthias his doorstep
it was the Viking he wasn't happy it
turned out to be a letter from the
techno Vikings lawyer and upon opening
it Matthias saw that the anonymous
Viking was demanding he removed the
video from the Internet and never use it
for commercial purposes again this
demands didn't make too much sense as
there were dozens of reuploads already
floating around online but it would be a
two hundred and fifty thousand dollar
fine if he failed to comply not only
take down the videos but the Viking
demanded thirteen thousand euros for
damages that and the ten thousand euros
in legal fees added up to twenty three
thousand euros that matthias had to pay
rendering him bankrupt the German Court
ultimately ruled that everyone else in
the world was free to upload the video
besides Matthias
matthias could never touch the video
again the techno viking was not a big
fan of the video it apparently took him
two years to even find out about it and
when he did he was not happy this was
partly because the moms on copious
amounts of speed at the time of
recording he tried to stay off the radar
for the following years after the video
and his identity was never actually
uncovered although rumors popped up here
and there
he's only revealed his actual identity
in the last few years and what little
information we now know of the man is
that his first name is Gunther
that's about in the rest is still a
mystery also the techno viking is now a
fortnight dance May 27th 1999 a young
gorilla is born at Gladys Porter Zoo
Texas his name is Harambee in 2014 he
was transferred to Cincinnati Zoo and
unfortunately harambe would meet his end
here just two years later May 28 2016
Cincinnati Zoo and Botanical Garden the
time hits 4 o'clock and a three year old
begins his journey into the guerrilla
enclosure climbing a 3-foot fence
crawling through four feet of bushes and
then falling 15 feet into the shallow
water of the pit things go south from
there upon realizing that a child was in
the pit the zookeepers signal for the
three gorillas in the enclosure to
return inside two of the gorillas follow
orders but a third gorilla goes rogue
this gorillas harambe instead he climbs
down into the shallow waters to
investigate the splashing now at this
point the crowd is screaming at the
sight of a 400-pound gorilla nearing a
child
Harambee can't take the pressure and
gets agitated and defensive he stands
over the child before dragging him
through the shallow water this is not an
ideal situation for anyone and the clock
is ticking there were two main options
option one they could tranquilize
Harambee but this comes with a few
problems
the tranquilization could take a few
minutes to kick in and his unconscious
body could fall on the kid option 2
involves a hunting rifle eventually the
head zookeeper makes the executive
decision eliminate the ape they took the
shot and tragically Harambee was no more
this sparked r.i.p Harambee protests
outside of the zoo for a few days and
four weeks after the Apes demise the
commemorative displays were being
parodied online people targeted some of
the memes as cincinnati zoo's social
media accounts so many people in fact
that the Cincinnati Zoo was actually
begging people to stop people didn't
stop Cincinnati Zoo had no choice they
had to go offline petitions popped up on
change.org demanding justice for
Harambee one even reaching half a
million signatures and the hashtag dicks
out for Harambee went viral a harambe
statue was erected people got tattoos of
Harambee apparently people voted for
Harambee he was everywhere and naturally
this brought a lot of attention to their
head zookeeper in the parents of the
child and they started to have some
problems first off was the head
zookeeper
it was his Twitter it kept getting
hacked the since deleted tweets read I
was planning this for a while so sorry
it took so long brother have a good time
in heaven
hashtag Harambee and Harambee one
cincinnati zoo zero the head zookeeper
retrieved his account and deleted the
tweets then came another tweet simply
hashtag dicks alpha harambe the
zookeeper Reeve retrieved his account
and deleted the tweet the parents of the
child also had problems hordes of people
attacked the mother over Facebook and
Twitter for not keeping an eye on her
child and that petition I mentioned
earlier it was made to incite an
investigation into whether the parents
were fit enough to raise their four kids
the mother made the backlash even worse
by posting a lengthy statement on
Facebook thanking God and not really
showing any sympathy for the gorilla she
got so much hate that she ended up
deleting her Facebook account and so the
cautionary tales of internet fame gone
wrong come to a close but one thing is
certain becoming a meme is it dance with
death it can shoot you to the stars
shall we you with money and even
unfortunately for us on to rap career
but bankruptcy lawsuits and god forbid
even being unable to play World of
Warcraft is never off the table